when you're working with no Js,
it's very common to include a library that ends up throwing an error without you knowing
why or how it did it in this lecture,
we're going to create an example library,
require it into our index dot Js file and then used the D bugger to help us diagnose that
that library is indeed the issue.
So let's go ahead and create library that does nothing except throw an error when it's in
its function.
It's called,
So I'm gonna call touch lib slash I'm gonna call this example debugging problem dot Js.
Now let's go to that library.
We're gonna create it.
I'm going to say that this is a library that demonstrates something throwing when it's in,
it is called.
We're gonna set this up like any other module is gonna have a container for the module.
Our example equals an object at the bottom is going to export the module module exports
equals example and in the middle,
we're going to create at in function,
so example,
in it equals function.
And inside this,
this is an air created intentionally bar is not defined by that,
I mean,
we're going to say that bar food equals bar.
This is going to throw an error specifically a reference air,
because food cannot be defined to bar when bar has not been to find itself.
So now that this library exists,
we can go ahead and included into our index file,
and we should see that exception is thrown when this is called.
But I don't want to crowd up our actual index file with a bunch of debugging later,
and so I'm going to create a new one.
But I'm actually just going to copy or existing file and name it something else.
So I'm going to copy index dot Js to index dash debug dot Js and then we'll start the app
with index dash debug instead of index.
Now we have index dash debug,
and it's an exact copy.
Let's go ahead and start the app up with node index dash debug.
See what happens.
Nothing so far because we have it include this library Now that's though this library You
are example debugging problem equals example debugging problem.
It was started up again.
We still don't have any issue because we're not calling the in it now that's actually call
the in it within that library told the in its crypt that will throw.
So we're gonna call example debugging problem that in it,
and set it up again.
And boom,
we have this issue.
Bar is not defined,
and it's a reference error.
But let's say that this script is a little bit more complicated.
Let's just add some logic here so that we can make this script a bit more robust.
Let's say that here we create food and assign it toe one that we increment food.
So I'm gonna call food plus plus,
and then we square it.
Fu equals food,
times food,
and then we convert food to a string.
So we're going to say food equals food to string,
and then we call the Indus Script That will throw so in our example,
this error that's thrown is not very cryptic.
It tells us exactly what's going on,
but in no Js,
you'll might not be this lucky all the time.
You might have a reference error or some other type of air that's deep within some library
,
and you don't know why,
and you're not even really sure which part of the code is throwing a rich library is
throwing.
And so you look back at your in dash dash debug and you're not sure which part of this
logic is throwing?
You just know that when you start up the application like so you end up with a throw.
So let's go through how you would use the D bugger to step through this issue.
Now,
there's a different way to start up a node application if you want to use the debunker and
that is with node inspect and then your entry file.
So Index,
Dash d buck.
Now we're using the Inspector,
which automatically attach is three d bugger.
But as you can see,
there isn't much going on here.
And there really isn't any debugging that's happening.
And so we want to kill this.
No,
we want to add some debugging,
and so I'm gonna add them all over the place so that we can step through this file later on
toe Addy debugging break point.
You just call d bugger!
Time to call it there and there I'm gonna call it above and below basically every function
.
And now I'm going to add some logging so that we can tell where we are in the file when
severed up in a worker's dot in it and cli dot in it get called there already logging out
what they're doing.
And so I'm just need to add luck here.
Console dot log Just assigned one food council log.
Just increment id food.
Just squared food.
Just converted food to string.
Just called the library.
Okay,
now that started.
Do bugger back up.
Let me just get rid of this extra l There start it up,
as you can see is starting up much in the same way.
But now that we have debugging points worked out here,
we can use some special debug commands to walk through this file.
The D bugger lets you use Kant to continue execution next to step to the next break point
in to step in,
out to step out and pause deposit for this example,
I'm going to use Kant.
So we have continued until the next debugging point,
which in this case is the first debugging point that we hit.
So it has stopped at 18.
If we do Kant again now,
we're at line 20 and we can continue doing it.
Now we're at line 23.
Now we're at line 25.
At this point,
the first logs are starting to come through.
You stepping down where?
All the way down at line 36.
Now I'm going to keep on stepping,
and I stepped all the way until the air was thrown.
So if I look back through my steps,
I can see why made it past 49.
I made it past 54 but I never reached the bugger on 59.
Also,
I got the consul logs to come out that told me that a converted food to a string.
But I never got the console logs to come out that told me that it called the library.
And so remember that this would be something you'd be doing if you couldn't figure out
where these errors were being thrown from.
And so using debugging steps and stepping in and out in this way could let you identify
exactly which part of the code is throwing.
But let's use another command to dive a little bit deeper.
Let's imagine that we hadn't done this console logging or that really the only thing that
we could keep track of was the value of food as we re debugging.
So let's start this up again.
I'm going to start stepping through as I did before.
But at this point,
let's say that the only thing that can let me know where the code is at execution wise is
figuring out what the value of Fu is.
So I'm going to Rather than writing Kant,
I'm gonna write Rappel Now I'm inside of a rebel inside of the D bugger And all of the
values of the variables inside of my file are made available to me in this rebel so I can
simply log out food and it will tell me that it is currently undefined.
So let's step out of this rebel.
I'm going to control sea and continue on with the execution.
I've gone a few more steps and now it can step back into the rebel,
try to log out food again.
You know,
tell me Fu is currently set to to so I can No,
No matter what has been logged out,
which might have not come out in a timely manner,
I can know that as faras the code execution goes what the system has done so far is
increment ID food,
but it hasn't done the next step.
So I'm to step out again,
continue on with the execution,
step back into the debunker call food,
and now it's set to a string called four.
I'll know that you must have increment it,
squared it and then converted it to a strength.
How is this useful?
Well,
it's useful in many cases because often the issues that you're debugging and no Js our race
conditions and with race conditions you can't just look at where the logic has gotten two
in the file,
like how far down in a file the process has gone because you have multiple asynchronous
calls that you're making,
and you really don't know what they've done so far in their own libraries,
etcetera.
And so using the rebel within the D bugger can let you step into the variables that you
want to analyze and figure out exactly their state at that moment,
regardless of where the execution is in this file,
because,
remember,
very rarely will you be using purely synchronous law.
Jake inside of Notre.
Yes,
you'll very often have a secret is calls all over the place.
So that is how you use the bugger to walk through your code and how you step into a rebel
within VD bugger in order to analyze the value of the variables set at any moment.
So with that,
we can move on to the next lecture.